---
layout: post
title: Introduction to the blog
subtitle: Getting some basic Python for finance out of the way
published: true
---

This first blog post serves as basis for the upcoming posts and topics to get some of the very basics out of the way. Basic Python and finance knowledge is assumed. There are also various sources for Python in gerneral and finance-related topics in specific online, some can be found in the resources of this page.

Most of these basics rely on the online courses by [Edhec Risk Institute](https://risk.edhec.edu/who-we-are) which can be found on [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/investment-management-python-machine-learning). I can only recommend taking these courses as much of the content is free to access without payment. 

Let's start with the very basics which we will be using in the following posts on more interesting topics: 
* data and data-source
* packages and basic functions we will be using. 

## Data-source

We will be using part of [Kenneth R. Frenchs data library](https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html), specifically the 30 Industry Portfolios.csv file.
The file includes several datasets one after the next in the samle sheet based on weighting schemes. We will be working with the value-weighted dataset which begins with row 12 for the indusries and ends based in the last update somewhere in 2020111 or row 1145+. simply copy this dataset, first row being the industries, in a separate csv-file with the name ind30_m_valueweight_rets.  

We will now load and adjust the data to make it more convinient to work with and take a look at the data. 
the file path may need to be adjusted depending where the .csv fiel is stored
For now we will also only take the data up until 2000. 
{% gist ff3f4cdae5a6d052e283f74b4cc8d98a %}

We want to set up some key figures for the returns data we now have: 

Drawdown function which provides a time series, as well as local and global drawdown for a given pandas time series: 
{% gist 74771a58c7b8b694f1fa2bb5f79207bd %}





